# **Software Requirements Specification:**
# Apply Yourself to the Field Ministry – Assignment Planner (AYFM-AP)
# IEEE Std 830-1998 SRS

## 1-INTRODUCTION
This document describes the background, user goals, and requirements of the software solution.

###	1.1-Purpose
This document is intended for the software developer. This is a hobby project where there is expected to be only one developer. The goal is to practice with the Software Engineering life cycle activities and various tools (Java, Python, MySQL, Git). The need for a guided design has been observed by the single developer that has already started working on the software.

### 1.2-Scope
The software product is intended to automate the processing and assignment of tasks for the section of a Jehovah’s Witness’ meeting named Apply Yourself to the Field Ministry (AYFM). The software product will be named “AYFM Assignment Planner.” The most important feature of the product is the automatic generation of suggestions. Therefore, the task assignments must be reviewed by the user for approval and finalization. 

### 1.3-Definitions, Acronyms, Abbreviations
User
 - Individual responsible for organizing Apply Yourself to the Field Ministry section (an obsolete but useful term for lack of a better one is School Superintendent)
Student
 - An enrolled person, who satisfies the requirements to participate
Assignee
 - Student assigned to participate in an assignment
Publisher
 - Student assigned responsibility for an assignment
Householder
 - Student assigned to role play as house holder

AYFM
- Apply Yourself to the Field Ministry
AYFM-AP (AP)
 - Apply Yourself to the Field Ministry Assignment Planner
SRS
 - Software Requirement Specification

assgn.
 - Assignment
hhold.
 - Householder

### 1.4-References
The documents currently used by the School Superintendent will be considered as input and output formats. These are included as references in the ‘user document templates’ folder. 

Three important documents that give specific instructions on AYFM are:
 - Benefit from Theocratic Ministry School Education (‘Benefit’)
 - Life and Ministry Meeting Workbook
 - S-38-S

Benefit describes the goals of AYFM (formerly Theocratic Ministry School) and the lessons with exercises that students will be assigned.

The Workbook is a monthly publication available at jw.org. This document describes all sections of the meeting including AYFM. This is where details are given about 3 (Initial Call, Return Visit, Bible Study) of the 4 assignments scheduled weekly. The Bible Reading assignment is under the section “Treasures from God’s Word” but responsibility for assigning it is given to the School Superintendent.

The last document is more difficult to access. S-38-S is in Spanish as the last letter in the name suggests. An English version exists but it has not been provided. The document details the guidelines for all sections of the Life and Ministry Meeting and clarifies what is expected and how to handle weeks with special activities (Overseer visit, Convention, or cancelation for example). S-38-S has been made available as pictures of the original document in folder S-38-S.

There are many existing tools that facilitate the scheduling of assignments. TheocBase is one of these. There is interest in exploring this application for understanding and identifying use cases. It can be found at theocbase.net along with its supporting documentation. Note that TheocBase manages all sections of midweek meeting and weekend meeting as well.

### 1.5-Overview
Section 2 is a description of the architecture and subsystems that make up AP. A block diagram outlines the subsystems. In that section, there is also a summary of the product, user background, and domain background. Section 3 gives a detailed description of the specific categories of software requirements.

## 2-OVERALL DESCRIPTION
AYFM-AP can be described as a feedback driven system. The schedules that AP produces can be used as input to AP. Some modification is expected to be made on the output schedules before being used as input.

### 2.1-Product perspective
[Block Diagram](/BlockDiagram.jpg)

#### System Interfaces
Above is a block diagram that outlines the subsystems. Note that the schedules that are output can be used as input. (If it seems like that diagram came out of nowhere, you’re right. It is premature to develop it here but that’s too bad.)

The ‘Reminder Slip Populator’ is in Java though also implemented in C#

Schedule parsing will be done in Java. 

The ‘Schedule Template Filler’ will use assignment suggestions generated by a query to the database. This is written in Java. This subsystem belongs to the business layer.

‘Data Access’ is takes advantage of Java Spring’s Hibernate capabilities.

#### Site adaption requirements
This desktop application should only require Java to run. The template documents will be in a folder like “Program Files” and the path should be saved as a java environment property configured at installation. The C# module would exist as an executable on the user’s machine in the same folder.

### 2.2-Product Functions
The product (AYFM Schedule Planner) automatically generates suggestions for the next month of assignments using students who have not participated in the longest time (last participation time and type are the only factors considered). The user will adjust the suggestions to better fit the specific assignments given in the Workbook. Now the user can give the schedule to the product which will save the information in the database and fill the assignment slips automatically.

### 2.3-User characteristics
The user may have limited technical computer skills. The user should be highly comfortable with using folders for organization and managing files.

### 2.4-Constraints
The most significant constraint are the factors that cannot be considered algorithmically to generate the schedules. The work is really for the School Superintendent.

### 2.5-Assumptions and Dependencies
Very often the structure of the “ministerial school” changes. This means that this software may become obsolete very quickly. The very bad assumption being made is that there will not be major changes to the school.

## 3-SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
### 3.1-External Interface Requirements
The UI is implemented in JavaFX. For document interface details see the block diagram.

### 3.2-Functional Requirements
See Appendix 4.1 for performance requirements as well. (The description may have included input validity checks, sequence of operations, responses to abnormal situations, input output relationships.)

## 4-APPENDIXES

### 4.1-Overall Software Requirements Specification
R1.	AYFM-AP must allow the user to input schedules that have been previously created.  
 1.	AYFM-AP will use a formatted table in a MS-DOCX (or RTF) document for the user to fill in manually.
 2.	AYFM-AP will parse the document to extract assignment information and detect new students.

R2.	AYFM-AP must allow the user to make corrections to existing schedules.
 1.	AYFM-AP will not write back to the MS-DOCX document any changes made in the database. (The user will need to do so manually to prevent lost information.)

R3.	AYFM-AP must allow the user to update completion information about assignments.
 1.	AYFM-AP will store whether the assignment was completed.
 2.	AYFM-AP will store whether the lesson was passed.

R4.	AYFM-AP must allow the user to create student profiles.
 1.	AYFM-AP will suggest student profiles to be created when an inserted schedule includes a name not in the database. (see R1.2)
 2.	AYFM-AP must allow the user to insert new profiles into the database.

R5.	AYFM-AP must allow the user to edit student profiles.
 1.	AYFM-AP must allow the user to approve students for different assignment types.
 2.	AYFM-AP must allow the user to approve students for different assignment roles.
 3.	AYFM-AP must allow students to be deactivated so that they will not be recommended for assignments.

R6.	AYFM-AP must generate participation summaries for each profile.
 1.	AYFM-AP will have assignment-type participation summaries which will include:
    - Name
    - assignments type
    - number of assignments (completed?)
    - number of assignments in section A
    - number of assignments in section B
    - number of householder assignments
    - number of householder assignments in section A
    - number of householder assignments in section B.
2.	AYFM-AP total participation summaries will aggregate the “assignment-type participation summaries” and will include:
    - Name
    - total assignments
    - total section A assignments
    - total section B assignments
    - total householder assignments
    - total section A householder assignments
    - total section B householder assignments 
    - most recent assignment date
    - next lesson to be assigned (?).

R7.	AYFM-AP must generate suggestions for assignments based on history for fairness.
 1.	AYFM-AP will suggest the student who has given the assignment (for a given type and role; possibly the section as well) the longest ago.
 2.	AYFM-AP will also avoid suggesting the same student across multiple assignments for an upcoming schedule.
 3.	AYFM-AP will suggest the same student across multiple assignments only if there is at least a minimum lapsed time between the assignments.
 4.	AYFM-AP will allow the user to edit the suggested schedule.

R8.	AYFM-AP must suggest lessons to be assigned next.
 1.	AYFM-AP will suggest the lesson that the user has entered to be assigned next.
 2.	AYFM-AP will not suggest a lesson if the user has not provided the next lesson.

R9.	AYFM-AP must generate the S-89-S form for each assignment.
 1.	AYFM-AP will use the schedule approved by the user to fill in the form.
 2.	AYFM-AP will use the suggested lessons or the lessons assigned by the user if there are no suggestions.

R10.	AYFM-AP must handle unexpected input values by informing the user.
 1.	AYFM-AP may ignore the values.
 2.	AYFM-AP may correct the values without write back. (user is expected to make corrections in the input files)
 3.	AYFM-AP may abort the operation.
